!short: Licence agreement
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------
^BLicence agreement


 This is a legal agreement between you, the end user, and
 APTware Limited.  By opening the sealed disk package, you
 acknowledge that you have read and agree with every provision
 of this agreement.  If you do not agree to the terms of this
 agreement, return the unopened disk package and printed
 materials in a resaleable condition to the place you obtained
 them for a full refund.

 ^A1ADefinitions

 The term 'Software' as used in this agreement means the
 computer programs contained, together with any updates
 subsequently supplied by APTware Limited.

 The term 'Software Copies' means the actual copies of all or
 any portion of the Software, including back-ups, updates,
 merged and partial copies permitted under this licence or
 subsequently supplied by APTware Limited.

 The term 'Printed Materials' means all of the printed materials
 provided in this package or later supplied by APTware Limited
 for use with the Software, including but not limited to copies
 of the printed materials supplied in electronic form.

 ^A1APermitted Uses

 The Software may be used on a single computer or moved to and
 used on another computer.

 You may make and maintain one back-up copy of the Software, and
 are encouraged to do so, provided it is only used for back-up
 purposes and you keep possession of the back-up. The disk must
 display a label together with the notice 'Rescue5 Copyright
 APTware Limited 1993, 1994'.

 This licence gives you certain rights to use the Software,
 Software Copies and Printed Materials.  You do not become owner
 of and APTware Limited retains title to all the Software,
 Software Copies and Printed Materials.  In addition you agree
 to use reasonable efforts to protect the Software from
 unauthorised use, reproduction, distribution or publication.
 All rights not specifically granted in this licence are
 reserved by APTware Limited.

 ^A1AProhibited Uses

 Under no circumstances may the Software be used on more than
 one computer at any one time.  You may not network the Software
 or otherwise use it on more than one computer or terminal at
 the same time. You may not sell, rent, lease, sub-licence, lend
 or transfer the Software, Software Copies, Printed Materials or
 your rights under this licence, except with the express written
 permission of APTware Limited.

 You may not remove or obscure the APTware Limited copyright
 notices.

 ^A1ALimited Warranty

 APTware Limited warrants that the Software will perform
 substantially in accordance with the Printed Materials on the
 computers and operating systems specified in the Printed
 Materials for a period of 90 days from the date of receipt.
 Any implied warranty of the Software is limited to 90 days.

 ^A1ALimitation of Remedies

 APTware Limited's entire liability and your only remedy shall
 be, at APTware Limited's option, either (i) return of the price
 paid or (ii) correction or replacement of the Software that
 does not meet APTware Limited's limited warranty and which is
 returned to APTware Limited with a copy of your receipt.  This
 limited warranty is void if failure of the Software has
 resulted from accident, abuse, or misapplication.  Any
 replacement Software will be warranted for the remainder of the
 original warranty period or 30 days, whichever is longer.

 ^A1ANo Other Warranties

 APTware Limited makes no other warranty of any kind, either
 expressed or implied, including but not limited to the implied
 warranties of merchantanbility and fitness for a particular
 purpose to you or any other person or entity with respect to
 this Software and Printed Materials.

 ^A1ANo Liability for Consequential Damages

 APTware Limited shall not be liable for any damages whatsoever,
 including, without limitation, damages for loss of profits,
 business interruption, loss of information, or other pecuniary
 loss arising out of the use of or inability to use this
 Software even if APTware or an authorised dealer has been
 advised of the possibility of such damages, or any claim by any
 other third party.

 ^A1AGeneral

 This agreement represents our entire understanding and
 agreement regarding the Software, Software Copies and Printed
 Materials and supersedes any prior communications or
 representations.

 This agreement will be governed by the law of England and you
 hereby agree to accept the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the
 English Courts.
!seealso: 
'------------------------------------------------------------------------------



